Titlu---
CPR steps: A visual guide
Descriere---
Using the CPR steps on someone who is not breathing can help keep them alive until the emergency services arrive.

CPR works by keeping a person’s blood flowing until healthcare professionals can help them. 
People without first aid training can still save a life by using the CPR steps.

When a person initiates CPR immediately after someone’s heart stops beating,
 CPR can double or even triple the chances of them surviving.

In this tutorial, we provide a step-by-step visual guide to performing CPR.


Step 1. Call 911

Step 2. Place the person on their back and open their airway
Place the person carefully on their back and kneel beside their chest. 
Tilt their head back slightly by lifting their chin.
Open their mouth and check for any obstruction, such as food or vomit. 
Remove any obstruction if it is loose.
 If it is not loose, trying to grasp it may push it farther into the airway.


Step 3. Check for breathing

Place your ear next the person’s mouth and listen for no more than 10 seconds.
 If you do not hear breathing, or you only hear occasional gasps, begin CPR.
If someone is unconscious but still breathing, do not perform CPR. Instead, 
if they do not seem to have a spinal injury, place them in the recovery position. 
Keep monitoring their breathing and perform CPR if they stop breathing.


CPR steps


Step 4. Perform 30 chest compressions

Place one of your hands on top of the other and clasp them together. 
With the heel of the hands and straight elbows, 
push hard and fast in the center of the chest, slightly below the nipples.
Push at least 2 inches deep. Compress their chest at a rate of least 100 times per minute.
 Let the chest rise fully between compressions
Step 5. Perform two rescue breaths

Making sure their mouth is clear, tilt their head back slightly and lift their chin. Pinch their nose shut, place your mouth fully over theirs, and blow to make their chest rise.

If their chest does not rise with the first breath, retilt their head. If their chest still does not rise with a second breath, the person might be choking.

Step 6. Repeat

Repeat the cycle of 30 chest compressions and two rescue breaths until the person starts breathing or help arrives. If an AED arrives, carry on performing CPR until the machine is set up and ready to use.

READER SURVEY
Please take a quick 1-minute survey
Your answers will help us improve our experience. You’re the best!

CPR for children and infants
The CPR steps for children and infants are slightly different to the steps for adults, as below.

Preparation steps
To perform CPR on an infant or child, use the following preparation steps:

Step 1. Call 911 or give 2 minutes of care

First, check the surrounding area for factors that could put you in danger. Next, check the child or infant to see whether they need help. For children, tap their shoulder and shout, “Are you OK?” For infants, flick the sole of their foot to see if they respond.

If you are alone with the child and they are not responding, give them 2 minutes of care and then call 911. If there is a bystander, ask them to call 911 while you give 2 minutes of care.

If possible, ask a bystander to go and search for an AED machine. Offices and other public buildings tend to house these.

If the child does respond, call 911 to report any life-threatening conditions.

Step 2. Place them on their back and open their airways

Place the child or infant carefully on their back and kneel beside their chest. Tilt their head backward slightly by lifting their chin.

Open their mouth. Check for any obstruction, such as food or vomit. If it is loose, remove it. If it is not loose, do not touch it, as this may push it farther into their airways.

Step 3. Check for breathing

Place your ear next to their mouth and listen for around 10 seconds. If you do not hear breathing, or you only hear occasional gasps, begin to administer CPR.

Changes in an infant’s breathing patterns are normal, as they usually have periodic breathing.

Keep monitoring their breathing and perform CPR if they stop breathing.

CPR steps
Use the following steps to perform CPR on a child or infant:

Step 4. Perform two rescue breaths

If the child or infant is not breathing, perform two rescue breaths with their head tilted backward and their chin raised.
For a child, pinch their nose shut and place your mouth over theirs. Breathe into their mouth twice.
For an infant, place your mouth over their nose and mouth and blow for 1 second to make their chest rise. 
Then, deliver two rescue breaths.
If they are still unresponsive, begin chest compressions.

Step 5. Perform 30 chest compressions

Kneel beside the child or infant.

For a child, use one of your hands. 
Place the heel of the hand at their sternum, which is in the center of the chest, between and slightly below their nipples. 
Press down hard and fast around 2 inches deep, or one-third the depth of the chest, at least 100 times per minute.
For an infant, use two fingers. Place your fingers in the center of their chest, between and slightly below the nipples. 
Perform 30 quick compressions around 1.5 inches deep.

Step 6. Repeat

Repeat the cycle of rescue breaths and chest compressions until the child starts breathing or help arrives.








